The dataset can be found in the `./data/locomo10.json` file in this repository. Each sample represents a single conversation and it's corresponding annotations:

- `sample_id`: identifier for the sample
- `conversation`:
  - List of sessions (`session_<num>`) and their timestamps (`session_<num>_date_time`). The numbers `<num>` represent the chronological order of the sessions. \* It also includes names of the two speakers i.e., `speaker_a` and `speaker_b`.
  - A _turn_ within each _session_ contains the name of the `speaker`, the dialog id `dia_id`, and content of the dialog `text`.
  - If the turn contains images, it also includes a link to the image `img_url`, caption generated by the [BLIP](https://huggingface.co/Salesforce/blip-image-captioning-large) model for the image `blip_caption` and the search query used by the third party module [icrawler](https://icrawler.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to retrieve the image.
- `observation` (generated): Observations for each of the sessions in `conversation` (`session_<num>_observation`). See below for the code to regenerate observations. These observations are used as one of the databases for evaluating retrieval-augmented generation i.e., RAG models in our paper.
- `session_summary` (generated): Session-level summaries for each session in `conversation` (`session_<num>_summary`). See below for the code to regenerate session-level summaries. These summaries are also used as one of the databases for evaluating RAG models in our paper.
- `event_summary` (annotated): List of significant events for each speaker within each session in `conversation` (`events_session_<num>`). These are the ground truth annotations for the event summarization task in the LoCoMo dataset.
- `qa` (annotated): Question-answer annotations for the question answering task in the LoCoMo dataset. Each sample contains `question`, `answer` (or `adversarial_answer` for category 5), `category` label and a list of dialog ids that contain the answer i.e., `evidence`, when available.

**Note 1**: This release is a subset of the conversations released previously with our first Arxiv version in March 2024. The initial release contained 50 conversations. We sampled a subset of the data to retain the longest conversations with high-quality annotations and for cost-effective evaluation of closed-source LLMs.

**Note 2**: We do not release the images. However, the web URLs, captions and search queries for the images are included in the dataset.

**Note 3**: The category is an integer from 1 to 5 inclusive. 1 is single-hop, 2 is multi-hop, 3 is temporal-knowledge, 4 is open-domain, 5 is adversarial.

**Note 4**: Ignore empty sessions.
